# DH Compatibility Predictor
 This DataHouse Compatibility Predictor was written in JavaScript; Node.js was used to test and run the code during development.

 Overview:
 The key files in this repository are:
 - 'compatibilitytester_console.js'; this was the file used to originally write and run the code. This .js file takes the data from 'members.json' (located in this repository) and runs calculations, outputting the list of scored applicants and their respective compatibility scores in the console.
  - 'members.json'; this JSON file provides sample data which contains the list of team members and applicants. The data provided in 'members.json' slightly differs from the sample data provided in the Take Home Project instructional PDF -- the structure of the data remains the same. Every attribute is rated on a scale from 0-10, integers only.
 - The "application" folder, where 'compatibilitytester_interface.html' can be found. This html file can be viewed and tested on https://htmlpreview.github.io/?https://github.com/deborahyuan/DH-Compatibility-Predictor/blob/main/application/compatibilitytester_interface.html. Unlike 'compatibilitytester_console.js', this site allows for users to upload their own JSON file. If not, they can choose to use the provided 'members.json' file which contains sample data. After uploading the file and clicking "Process JSON", the scoredApplicants will be output in the text area below -- the output JSON is also available for download.


 Description:
 Using JavaScript to create an application that will calculate/predict the compatibility of applicants with existing team members. The calculation takes the attributes of team members, a total of 5, and finds the average and the mode of each attribute. Note that the calculation is based on the assumption that all attributes, such as "intelligence" or "problemSolving" are equally as important. These team attribute averages and modes are then saved into variables, which will be used later in the calculation. Each applicant has 5 attributes that match up with the attributes of the team. 
 
 1. The applicant's attributes, such as "intelligence" will be compared with the team's attribute AVERAGE for that attribute. If the applicant has an attribute value GREATER THAN or EQUAL TO that of the team's, they get 1 point. For every 1 value that the applicant is less than the team average, they will recieve 0.2 less points (e.g. team average intelligence: 7, applicant intelligence: 6, will receive 0.8 points instead of 1 point), up to 2 values less than the team average. If the applicant's attribute value is more than 2 values less than the average, they recieve 0 points. 
 2. The team's attribute values will also be evaluated for a MODE, which, if one (and only one) exists, will be factored into the compatibility calculation as well. In the case that a MODE is present for a team attribute, the points collected from comparing with the team average will be multiplied by 0.9, while the applicant will recieve 1 point (x0.1).
 3. The applicant's points will then be added up and divided by the number of attributes (in this case, 5), resulting in a compatibility score between 0 and 1.


 Personal Notes:
 Although this assignment posed quite a big challenge for me as I didn't have much coding experience, I ended up enjoying the process a lot more than I expected. I spent around 8 hours working on it, with 1 hour spent on figuring out how I wanted to approach calculating the compatibility score, 4 hours on the actual coding, 1 hours on debugging, 1 hour on HTML/CSS, and around 1 hour writing out this README file and commenting my code. I know the instructions mentioned that we don't need to spend a lot of time on this assignment, but I had some free time this weekend and wanted to complete the task as much as possible; it also proved to be a good refresher on some of the coding skills I learned in class last semester.